In this video,
we're gonna go ahead and download and instal
the Java development kit.
Also known as the JDK.
We're gonna instal it on Linux,
specifically were going to instal it on Ubuntu 16.04.
So if you're running a different version of Linux
you should be able to follow along and do something similar
for your disc Drive.
And also keep in mind if you're running on a Windows machine
or a Mac computer,
we've actually got separate videos
for your operating systems
because the process is slightly different.
But if you're on a Linux machine,
follow along because you're at the right place.
All right so the first thing we wanna do
is open up a command window.
So I'm just going to open a terminal.
I'm just going to bring that in and enlarge it a little bit.
And what we'll do first is we'll do a sudo space,
apt dash get space update.
This will update the package index.
Type in your password.
Give that a moment to complete.
And you can see that that was pretty quick.
So the next thing we're gonna do now is type
sudo space add dash apt dash repository
space ppa colon
webupdateam forward slash java.
Give that a moment to complete.
Press Enter.
Once that's finished you can do a
sudo space apt dash get space update.
Once that's finished we're gonna do a
sudo space apt dash get space instal
space oracle space Java eight dash Installer.
And I'm going to press yes there
or select yes and press enter,
or select Y I should say,
or type it anyway.
And then we're going to go through this
little configuration guide.
So going to press enter.
And do we accept the Oracle Binary Code Licence Terms?
Yes to that and I'm going to press enter.
And you can see that's now going away
and downloading the JDK.
So I'll give that a moment to complete.
I'm just going to fast forward this video
to the end of the download.
Okay the download's complete.
It's just finishing the configuration
and that's now complete.
And what we're doing now is we'll type in
sudo space update dash alternatives
two minus signs,
two dashes in other words config space java.
And you can see that there's an option there.
You can select either of those
but the correct option is showing for me.
You can see that it shows Java 8 Oracle.
So depending on your installation of Linux,
you might have other versions of the Java,
perhaps Open JDK or a different version of Java
so you can select the relevant option.
But in this case the default option is correct
and we're good to go.
So I'm just going to press enter there to not do anything
and the last thing to do is just type in
java space dash v or try dash dash version.
[Mumbles] with java space dash version.
That's what I was trying to do the first time.
And that now confirms that we've successfully installed Java
and you can see that it shows that we're running,
in this particular case, build 25.144
or we can see on the previous line up here build 1.8.0_1 4 4
so this number here may be different for you.
144 indicates the build release.
In this case JD Java development kit version 8.
But the point is that we're good to go.
So that's now downloaded and installed correctly
and what we can do.
We've checked that job is on there.
We can type in JavaC which is the Java compiler
just to confirm that that actually worked
and that's part of the Java development kit.
And you can see that that's come up as well
and if we wanted to,
we could do the same with version.
JavaC 1.8.0_144.
So in other words,
we've gotta have Java development kit installed
and we can proceed now and move on to the next video.